In the previous module,
you got an introduction to running SQL Server on Kubernetes, you saw how
to deploy SQL Server pods on Kubernetes, and you saw how Kubernetes can
provide high availability to those SQL Server instances. In this module,
we're going to build on all those concepts that you learned in the last
module by deploying a SQL Server availability group on a 3‑node
Kubernetes cluster.
Like the previous example, Kubernetes will be providing the high
availability for the SQL Server instances.
The SQL Server availability group will be providing scale‑out
processing for the SQL Server databases. To do this, we're going to
take all those basics you learned about in the last module about
writing a single SQL Server instance and expand them to cover this
3‑node SQL Server availability group.
Alright,
so let's go ahead and dig into the nitty‑gritty details of running
SQL Server availability groups on Kubernetes.
First, in case you're not that familiar with SQL Server availability groups,
you'll get an overview of SQL Server availability groups.
You'll learn about the capabilities of SQL Server Always On availability groups,
as well as how they work.
Next,
you'll get an overview of our SQL Server
availability groups on Kubernetes solution.
You'll learn about the Kubernetes requirements that are required to
deploy a 3‑node SQL Server availability group,
as well as what's different about using availability groups on Kubernetes.
You'll also learn about some of the requirements, as well as
some of the limitations for this solution.
Then, in the next section,
we'll start diving into the technical details of implementing the solution.
Here, you'll see how to create a 3‑node cluster on Azure Kubernetes
Services that can run a SQL Server availability group, as well as how
to connect and manage that cluster using your local kubectl. You'll see
how to create external storage and persistent volume claims for the
three SQL Server nodes.
Then, we'll dig into the Kubernetes deployments for the primary
and secondary availability group replicas.
You'll see some new concepts here like assigning a hostname,
using memory limitations, and opening multiple ports in the load balancer.
After the cluster is built,
you'll see how to deploy a SQL Server availability group on top of that
cluster. You'll see how to create the primary replica,
the two secondary replicas,
as well as how to seed and load the database that's
part of the availability group.
Then, you'll see how you can connect to that SQL Server
availability group using Microsoft Azure Studio,
as well as how you can manage the availability group using
SQL Server Management Studio. Here, we'll connect to the
SQL Server availability group,
demonstrate the scale‑out capabilities, and perform a failover.
As you can see, there's a lot to cover in this module, so let's go ahead and jump into it.